Fellow students.
So no we are going to log in into each one of our operating systems that he's called previously.
Currently we are at the book to server command line and our user in this machine was Cur-Lee
and password.
And there we are log in right now.
So in Linux there are two kinds of users.
These are regular user like the one we just created.
And of course on that one machine you could hundreds of users and there's going to be super user or
root user and that is if you're coming from a Windows background that is similar to an administrator
on a Windows machine which have all the powers to make and break things basically can change things.
You can write to files that other people cannot.
That the regular users cannot.
So it's a good practice.
Always log into a Linux machine using a non root I can only switch to root account when you really have
to change something or if there's a file that you cannot see because it requires root permission to
even look at it.
So and we're going to discuss those in detail later.
So if I want to exit out of here I can just simply type it and I'm back at the
log out and log on will also get me logged out of the system and back to the problem in not going to
look at Susa Linux.
And since my machine right now is showing a locked I just have to type in the password and I'm back
in.
So I'm in the back in the Gulli and there are two ways you can lock your machine.
So if you're leaving suppose if you're in a work environment is always always always a good idea to
lock your screen.
Don't just assume that eventually is the lock itself out.
But because during that time it's somebody you really want to disrupt stuff.
They can come and do it and you'll be blamed for it because you're a machine.
So always have good ideas good security practice to lock screen.
And if you are completely leaving the system you can leave and you'll you'll get these options suspend
reboot shut down and log out so you can log out
and you can back at the problem and hear from here and type in the password again.
And your log back.
Now we're at our Centaurus machine and Larry is a user on that
logged it although I kind of briefly went over all of this during the installation process as well.
But since this is part of your domain and competencies.
So I wanted to make sure that I do show it to you again just so you know in each of these operating
system how does the log in and log out process works.
So on to this machine.
You see this little power button here.
You just click on that.
And from here you just click on the user and you have the lock out option here.
And then will prompt you you're going to be locked out in 60 seconds and you can do it earlier.
And that should bring you back to the log in go.
So this is how you log in and log out of all these three flavors of Linux that you have discussed so
far.